Non-relational databases:
NoSQL databases build a structure for the data that they contain using key-value pairs instead. With key-value pairs, data is organized into items identified by unique keys.

Each key has one or more associated attributes, or values, that represent various characteristics of the data. You can think of a key as a word entry in a dictionary, and the value as its associated definition. Not every item in the table has to have the same attributes, and you can add or remove attributes at any time.

Amazon Dynamo Db:
fully managed NoSQL database service that provides fast and predictable performance for both document and key-value data structures
It's a powerful and incredibly fast database option for use cases that require a flexible schema, and is ideal for applications that require high performance and seamless scaling.

Use case:
gaming platforms, financial service applications, and mobile applications with global user bases.

Benefits:
1.) Scalability with provisioned capacity
2.) High performance
3.) High availability
4.) Data encryption

Amazon Documnet db (Mongo db compatibility)
It is a fully managed service designed to handle semistructured data, which is information that doesn't conform to rigid relational schemas. 

Use cases:
Some examples of practical use cases for Amazon DocumentDB are content management systems, catalog and inventory management, and user profile and personalization systems.

Benefits:
1.) Mongodb compatibility
2.) performance and Scalability
3.) increased read throuput

AWS backup:
AWS Backup streamlines data protection across various AWS resources and on-premises deployments by providing a single dashboard for monitoring and managing backups.
AWS Backup centralizes and automates data protection processes, improving consistency and reducing administrative overhead. It offers flexible scheduling options, encryption capabilities, and cross-Region backup support for enhanced disaster recovery.

Use cases:
Some examples of practical use cases for AWS Backup are centralized disaster recovery, consistent backup policies for compliance requirements, and consolidating multiple backup processes through a single interface.

Benefits:
Centralised backups
Cross-region backups
Streamlined regulatory compliance

Amazon Neptune (Graph db)
Neptune is a fully managed, purpose-built graph database service that manages highly connected data sets, like those used in social networking applications.
It excels at understanding complex relationships that are difficult to identify in traditional relational databases like user connections, friend networks, and interaction patterns

Use case:
Some examples of practical use cases for Amazon Neptune are social network user connection mapping, fraud detection systems, and search and recommendation systems.

Benefits:
1.) Complex relationships
2.) High performance and Scalability