Regions:
It has the most extensive global footprint than any other cloud provider and adds more Locations faster than any other cloud service provider.
Currently there are 26 geographical regions and many more are in the works.It maintains geographical regions in North America,South America,Europe and middle east

AWS regions are physical regions that are present across the world.
The group of this data centers are reffered to as Availability zones. 
Each zone contains about 3 zones. 

Availablity Zones:
It consists of one or more data centers in a region with redundant power, networking and connectivity
It gives customers the ability to add production applications , databases that are highly available ,scalable and fault tolerant by placing them in multiple data centers.
It maintains 84 AZ across the world.
Each zone can have multiple data centers and at full scale can be hundreds of servers.
They are fully isolated in the global infrastructure.
They are physically saperated from other AZ by a meaningfull distance, although they are within 100km distance.
Edge Locations:
To deliver content to end users with low latency, AWS uses global network of 310 edge locations and 13 Regional Edge Caches in 90+ cities across 47 countries.

Security:
Protection against network and application layer attacks
SSL/TLS Encryption and HTTPS
Access Control
Compliance

Edge Locations:
Amazon has 400+ points of presence (400+ edge locations and 10+ regional caches) in 90+ cities and 40+ locations.
Content is delivered to end users with reduced latency.


How to choose a AWS region in setting up an application
1.) Compliance:
Sometimes the government would want the data to be stored in the same locally.

2.) Proximity:
Application is served closer to customer for reduced latency

3.) Availability of service:
Not all services are available in all regions

4.) Pricing
The pricing for a perticular service depends on the region

Service scoping

Global services:
Availablle across all regions
eg: IAM,ROUTE 53,waf (Web Access Firewall) and cloudfront

Regional scoped
Availablle only in specific regions
Amazon Elastic Beanstalk 
Amazon EC2
Amazon recognition
Lambda

