Amazon FSx:
it convenient and cost effective to launch, run, and scale feature-rich, high-performance file systems in the cloud.
It supports a wide range of workloads with its reliability, security, scalability, and broad set of capabilities.
Compared to Amazon EFS, which focuses on the Network File System (NFS) compatibility, Amazon FSx supports multiple filesystem protocols, including Windows File Server, Lustre, OpenZFS, and NetAPP ONTAP.
Amazon FSx is built on the latest AWS compute, networking, and disk technologies to provide high performance and lower total cost of ownership (TCO).
As a fully managed service, it handles hardware provisioning, patching, and backups.

Benefits:
1.) File system integration:
supports industry-standard file system protocols, allowing convenient integration with your existing applications, workflows, and development tools.

2.) Managed infrastructure:
reduces the complexity of managing infrastructure while delivering the features and capabilities of traditional file systems.

3.) Scalable Storage:
Amazon FSx adjusts resources dynamically, eliminating the need for complex capacity planning and manual infrastructure management.

4.) Cost effective:
Amazon FSx has a pricing model and automated tiering options that optimize costs by charging only for used storage and moving infrequently accessed data to lower-cost tiers.

File systems:
1.) Amazon FSx for Windows File Server
Use cases:
Reduce SQL Server deployment cost.
Accelerate hybrid workloads.
Streamline virtual desktops and streaming.

2.) Amazon FSx for NetApp ONTAP
Amazon FSx for NetApp ONTAP provides fully managed shared storage in the AWS Cloud with the popular data access and management capabilities of ONTAP.
Use cases:
Modernize your data management.
Streamline business continuity.

3.) Amazon FSx for OpenZFS
Amazon FSx for OpenZFS provides fully managed shared file storage built on the OpenZFS file system and accessible through the NFS protocol 

4.) Amazon FSx for Lustre
Use case:
Accelerate machine learning (ML).
Enable high performance computing (HPC).
Big data analytics



