Amazon Elastic File Storage:(Amazon EFS)
Amazon EFS is a fully managed, scalable file storage service for use with AWS cloud services and on-premises resources.
It operates using the Linux Network File System (NFS) protocol, and automatically scales to petabytes as you add or remove files without disrupting applications.

Benefits:
a.) Multiple insances accessing the data In EFS at the same time.
b.) Automatic scaling
c.) it comes with pre-configured lifecycle policies that help keep your cloud data cost-optimized.
d.) EFS automatically moves data between storage classes based on access patterns, but you have the option to customize the lifecycle policies to fit your storage needs. 
it's a true file system for Linux
e.) EFS is not AZ-limited, you can connect storage to EC2 instances throughout the region or even from other regions

Storage Classes:
1.) Standard: (EFS Standard and EFS Standard-Infrequent Access (Standard-IA) storage classes)
classes offer Multi-AZ resilience and the highest levels of durability and availability.
They have a higher cost associated with them due to higher availability and durability.

2.) One Zone storage: (The EFS One Zone and EFS One Zone-Infrequent Access (EFS One Zone-IA))
provide additional savings by saving your data in a single Availability Zone.
By using just one Availability Zone, you can reduce your storage costs when compared to the Standard EFS storage classes.

3.) Archival Data Storage
The EFS Archive storage class is cost-optimized for data that is accessed only a few times a year or less and that does not need the sub-millisecond latencies of EFS Standard.
storage price up to 50% lower compared to EFS Infrequent Access, providing a more cost-optimized experience for cold, rarely-accessed data.


Amazon EFS data lifescycle:
storage costs by automatically moving data between storage classes based on usage patterns.
You can create lifecycle policies that determine when and how files transition between different storage tiers.
These automated policies help ensure your data resides in the most cost-effective storage class without manual intervention.

Data transitions:
a.) Transition to IA
This policy instructs lifecycle management when to move files into the Infrequent Access storage, which is cost-optimized for data that is accessed only a few times each quarter. 
Post 30 days , they are transitioned to 1A.

b.) Transition to Archive
his policy instructs lifecycle management when to move files into the Archive storage class, which is cost-optimized for data that is accessed only a few times each year or less.
Post 90 days, they are transitioned into Archival
