Storage:
Based on type of data stored there are 3 main types:
1.) Block Storage
It provides persistent, low-latency block-level storage volumes that attach to EC2 instances like physical hard drives.

Block storage volumes can be encrypted, backed up via snapshots, and modified while in use without disrupting the instance
There are 2 main types of primary block storage
a.) Amazon EC2 instance store
An unmanaged non-persistent, high-performance block storage directly attached to EC2 instances for temporary data.

b.) Amazon Elastic block store:
persistent block storage volumes for EC2 instances, offering various types for different workloads

2.) Object Storage
It is a data storage architecture that manages data as objects in a flat address space.
Benefits:
a.) Unlimited Scalability
b.) Metadata storage capabilities
eg: Amazon Simple Storage Service(S3)

3.) File system Storage
provide shared file systems accessible over networks, so multiple users and applications can access the same data simultaneously.

Benefits:
a.) Scalability
b.) flexibility

There are 2 primary file storage services
a.) Amazon Elastic File system (EFS)
b.) Amazon SFx


Additional storage services:
The services that will be listed below do not fit into any of the categories listed above

Amazon Storage Gateway:
A fully managed, hybrid-cloud storage service that provides on-premises access to virtually unlimited cloud storage.

AWS Elastic Disaster Recovery
A fully managed service that streamlines the recovery of your physical, virtual, and cloud-based servers into AWS.


AWS shared responsibility:
For Amazon storage, There are defined into 3 categories
1.) Fully managed:
AWS is responsible for everything from the hardware and infrastructure up through the entire storage stack
Customers are only responsible for data management, access controls, and proper service configuration.
2.) Managed:
AWS manages the underlying storage infrastructure, hardware redundancy, and volume replication.
Customers are responsible for data backup strategies, encryption configuration, volume performance optimization, and capacity planning.
3.) Unmanaged:
customers takes full responsibility for data management, backup/recovery, encryption, performance optimization, and durability.
AWS only maintains the underlying physical hardware and network infrastructure.
