Container:
They package everything that application needs like code,runtime,configuration into single package that runs consistantly into a single portable unit.
This helps in creating a consistant environment, isolating the aplication from underlying hardware.
This helps in scaling and deploying the application conveniently.
Containers are faster than Vms.

Container Orchestration:
it manages the lifecycle of containers like starting, stopping and running them across the cluster.

Docker:
Docker is a software platform for building, testing, and deploying applications quickly.

There are 2 main container Orchestration in AWS
1.) Amazon Elastic Container Servcie
it is a scalable container Orchestration service for running and managing containers like docker containers.
Launch types with ECs:
a.) Amazon ECS With EC2:
b.) Amazon ECS with fargate

2.) Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service
It is a fully managed service for running Kubernetes on AWS. It simplifies deploying, managing, and scaling containerized applications using open-source Kubernetes, with ongoing support and updates from the broader community.
Launch types with EKS:
a.) Amazon EKS with EC2
b.) Amazon EKS with fargate



Elastic Container Resgistry (ECR):
It is a fully manages service used to store,manage and deploy the docker images of our container.
You can push, pull, and manage images in your Amazon ECR repositories using standard container tooling and command line interfaces (CLIs).
Conatiners can run with 2 options namely
1.) Amazon EC2 -> full control to manage the infrastructure
2.) Amazon Fargate -> AWS manages the servers,


Deployment with containers
When developer builds an application , developers environemnt is different from staging pr production.
This can make deployments fail and debugging a lot harder.

Fargate:
It is a serverless compute engine for containers. 
It works with both Amazon ECS and Amazon EKS. 
It is a container hosting platform, unlike Amazon ECS and Amazon EKS, which are both container orchestration services.

Additional compute services:
1.) Elastic Bean Stalk (EBS):
Elastic Beanstalk is a fully managed service that streamlines the deployment, management, and scaling of web applications.
Developers can upload their code, and Elastic Beanstalk automatically handles the provisioning of infrastructure, scaling, load balancing, and application health monitoring

2.) AWS Batch:
AWS Batch is a fully managed service that you can use to run batch computing workloads on AWS. 
It automatically schedules, manages, and scales compute resources for batch jobs, optimizing resource allocation based on job requirements.

3.) Lightsail
Amazon Lightsail is a cloud service offering virtual private servers (VPSs), storage, databases, and networking at a predictable monthly price.

4.) OutPosts
AWS Outposts is a fully managed hybrid cloud solution that extends AWS infrastructure and services to on-premises data centers. 

