Elastic cloud (EC2) Pricing


There are basically 6 pricing options while deciding an instance of EC2 server.

1.) On-demand instance:
Pay only for duration the instance runs depending on the OS and memory options configured.
No long term commitments or up-front payments needed.
There are generally used for unpredictable workloads of server.
They can generally be used while getting started with the application.

2.) Savings plan
It lowers prices for consistant amount of usage.
This is generally measure for a commitment of about 1-3 years using dollars.
The prices can be lower irrespective of instance type, OS or region.

3.) Reserved instances
They are well suited for predictable workloads or steady usage type.
They provide 75 percent discount when compared to on demand instance on a commitemnt of 1-3 years.
There are 3 payment options namely
a.) Total upfront
b.) Partial upfront
c.) No upfront payment

4.) Spot instances
They are used to get spare capacity for upto 90 percent off on ondemand insances.
AWS can reclaim the server at any point of time with 2 mins warning to save the workload. They can be reclaimed at any time.
Make sure your workloads can tolerate being interupped.

5.) Dedicated hosts:
There are physical server that are exclusivly provided for customers use.
This isolation use-case is ideal for security-sensitive or licensing-specific workloads, like Windows or SQL Server.

Dedicated hosts
Pay for instances and physical  hardware that are soley dedicated to your account.
This helps in maintaining isolation from other hosts.

More on dedicated hosts and dedicated instances.

Dedicated Hosts:
It provides full use of physical servers, offering full control over the instance placement and and resurce allocation.
These are generally for compaliance and security control.

Dedicated instances:
It offer physical isolation from other AWS accounts while still benefiting from the flexibility and cost savings of shared infrastructure.

Main difference:
Dedicated Instances provide isolation without you choosing which physical server they run on. Dedicated Hosts give you an entire physical server for exclusive use, providing complete control over instance placement and resource allocation.


Cost optimization:
To optimise costs , AWS provides 3 main modes of pricing options:
1.) Reserved Instances -> Steady-state workloads with predictable usage
offer up to 75 percent savings over On-Demand pricing by applying discounts across instance sizes and multiple Availability Zones within a Region
2.) Cost Savings plan -> Predictable workloads
Savings Plans offer discounts compared to On-Demand rates in exchange for a commitment to use a specified amount of compute power (measured per hour) over a one-year or three-year period
3.) Capacity reservation 
With Amazon EC2 Capacity Reservations, you reserve compute capacity in a specific Availability Zone for critical workloads. 
You only pay for your running instances.
