Cloud models
They are three types of cloud service models
1.) SAAS (Software as a Service);
2.) PAAS (Platform as a Service);
3.) IAAS (Infrastructure as a Service)


1.) Software as a service - SAAS
it gives you quick access to cloud based web applications
Vendor controls the entire computational stack, which can be accessed by the browser
complete product is run by the service provider
eg: Google G Suite


2.) Platform as a Service
It is a platform that we can develop,test and organise different applications for your business.
it simplifies the process of Software development.
removes the need to manage the underlying infrastructure
service provider can focus on deploymnet and testing of software application
eg: Amazon Elastic Beanstalk

3.) Infrastructure as a Service
virtual provision of computational resources over the cloud.
It can provide you the entire range of Infrastructure such as storage,servers network alongside maintainance and support
Provides networking,computing (computers) and storage (Database)
High level of flexibility
Easy as a parallel with on premise IT resources
eg: Amazon EC2 


Resource management:

1.) Infrastructure as a Service
Application , data, runtime Middleware and OS is managed by customer
virtualisation,storage,servers and networking is managed by AWS
eg: Amazon EC2

2.) Platform as a Service
Application and data is managed by the customer
Runtime, Middleware,OS,virtualisation,storage,servers and network is managed by AWS
eg: Amazon Elastic Beanstalk

3.) Software as a service - SAAS
All aspects are managed by cloud provider

Aws cloud models:

A.) Cloud-based deployment:
User has the fliexibility to migrate the existing resources to the cloud, design and build new applications within the cloud

B.) On-premise development:
Deploying resources in the premises using virtualisation and resource management tools does not provide many of the benefits of cloud computing.

C.) Hybrid deployment:
The cloud deployment and on-premise development work together. This is ideal for legacy application to remain in on premise for maintainance and regulatory purpose.


Pricing in the cloud
AWS has 3 pricing options that follow the pay-as-you-go pricing model
Compute:
Pay only for the compute time
Storage:
Pay only for the data stored in cloud
Network:
Data that is transferred from out of the cloud
This solves the issue of traditional IT
Data that is transferred in the network is free of cost.