Cloud computing
Gives you access to servers,storage,databases and broad set of applications required for the internet

Amazon Web servers
Offers reliable, scalable and inexpensive cloud services and gives you option as free to join as well as pay as you use. This is beneficial

Why AWS?
Locations -> They are spread over multiple regions across the world
Automated backups -> They provide screenshots based backups in automated fashion
Disaster recovery -> They provide service layer aggrements during Disaster recovery
Flexibility and scalability -> scalability of servers and databases.
Pay-as-you-go Pricing model -> Pay for the services as you use them
Security -> They have various encryption and decryption strategy


Benefits
1.) Agility -> Allows us to innovate faster and focus on our valuable IT resources.
2.) Elasticity -> We can provision the amount of services we actually need and we can instantly scale up and down based on need of the business. This prevents over-provisioning of resources.
3.) Deploy global in minutes -> Easy deployment of resources in multiple physical Locations around the world. This helps in maintaining lower latency and less cost.
4.) Pay as you go -> pay only for what you consume.



AWS Free Tier:
it allows people to create free tier account, where there are limits to use a service within the limits to have free account.
Cost is very low to get started.


Definition of Cloud Computing:
on-demand delivery of IT resources over the internet with pay-as-you-go pricing


6 main benefits of cloud computing:
1.) Trade fixed expense for variable expense
By using the AWS Cloud, businesses can transition from fixed investments to variable costs. With variable costs, customer expenses are better aligned with actual usage, thus creating more financial flexibility.


2.) Benefit from massive economies of scale
Like buying a product in bulk can result in lower prices per unit, the vast global infrastructure of AWS can result in lower costs for customers. This means that AWS can be used by many organizations, from small startups to major corporations. Businesses big and small can access advanced technologies that were previously only accessible to large enterprises.

3.) Stop guessing capacity
Customers can dynamically scale AWS Cloud resources up or down based on real-time demand. This means businesses can achieve optimal performance without provisioning more or less infrastructure than they need.

4.) Increased speed and agility
With the cloud, businesses can rapidly deploy applications and services, accelerating time to market and facilitating quicker responses to changing business needs and market conditions.

5.) Stop spending money to run and maintain data centers
The AWS Cloud eliminates the need for businesses to invest in physical data centers. This means customers aren't required to spend time and money on utilities and ongoing maintenance. With AWS taking care of the physical infrastructure of the cloud, customer resources can be reallocated to more strategic initiatives.

6.) Go global in minutes
Businesses don't need to set up their own infrastructure to expand internationally. AWS provides a robust global infrastructure that customers can use to deploy applications and services across multiple areas in minutes.


